---
title: "Proofs, Refutations and Zombies"
date: 2018-08-20T15:10:55-04:00
draft: true
---

quote: falsity doesn't negate a proof

> "Many working mathematicians are puzzled about what proofs are for if they do not prove. On the one hand, they know from experience that proofs are fallble but on the other hand they know from their dogmatist indoctination that *genuine* proofs must be infallible. *Applied mathematicians* usually solve this dilemma by a shamefaced but firm belief that the proof of the *pure mathematicians* are 'complete', and so *really* prove. Pure mathematicians, however, know better - they have such respect only for the 'complete proofs' fo *logicians*. If asked what is then the use, the function, of their 'incomplete' proofs', most of them are at a loss."

	better
In my albeit limited spare time, I've been reading a book recommended to me at least 10 years ago by my father


read it through the lens of my own anti-representationalist sensibilities
 	the title is a reference both to joke title variations like [this](TODO LINK), but also to [philosophical zombies](todo link) which are humans extensionally but not intensionally. Lakatos explores the equally tricky, and I think analogous, issue of the extensional and intensional notions of proof, though not in that language.

by both the content and the dialectic style of it

	the argument is set up as a dialogue between a teacher and a classroom-full of students, and their discussion parallels a
		todo blah
			of mathematical history
				for instance, one student, *Delta* represents the

	Lakatos does an amazing job of diving into the mathematical detail
		he picks an area of mathematics which
			half of the effort of this sort of exposition is finding just the right sort of example: I wonder how he landed on




The following are basically just chapter-by-chapter notes on the book - nothing particularly synthesized - so this with expand as and when I move through the rest of the book.

# Chapter 1

First o

A sort of Socratic attack on the dogma that proofs are mathematical or logical objects.

Lakatos exemplifies this point by careful examination of Euler's formula (V−E+F=2).

As shown in a series of careful proofs and refutations of the claim that an polyhedra are
	Given a counterexample to V−E+F=2 in the form of a weird looking polyhedron, one student's response is *monster-barring*: ruling that this counterexample isn't a *real* polyhedron in the sense meant by the proof

	On the one hand, this move is clearly unfalsifiable
		but exemplifies a

	As Lakatos sees it (here I'm making the assumption that his position is represented by the teacher), a proof is not the formal object from premises to conclusion:

		even after the counterexample has been provided, there is clearly an intuition
			the projection and removal
				which must amount to something:
					this cognitive object is

		rather, it is the insight that allows a problem to be deconstructed in a particular way

		but rather a modularization

	my cognitive interpretation of Lakatos:
		he's stabbing at the same problem as Plato's: what is a horse:

			mathematical proofs seem like natural objects, so should admit fundamental definitions:
				but they don't

AI:

	if this seems abstruse, it's worth translating the whole debate to algorithms rather than proofs, at which point the territory of early AI and Marr's levels of explanations

		If you're familiar with the Curry-Howard isomorphism, you'll know that - and here I'm hand-waving - proofs and programs are two sides of the same coin.

	I like to think that there's a
		cognitive
			version of the Curry-Howard isomorphism, in which all the philosophical
		problems
			with proofs correspond to the same
				problems
					with programs.

		For instance,

			the algorithm of:
			question: what is a formal algorithm that is like this?
				oh maybe when unclear what the extension:



		"There is strictly speaking no such thing as mathematical proof; we can, i the last analysis, do nothing but point;...proofs are...rhetorical flourishes designed to affect psychology" - hardy

		"Delta's main mistake is perhaps his dogmatist bias in the interpretation of mathematical proof: he thinks that a proof necessarily proves what it has set out to prove. My interpretation of proof will allow for a *false* conjecture to be "proved" ".


* Hidden in the footnotes, there are references to Skepticism; Lakatos cites [Sextus Empiricus](todo link), for example, and frequently uses the term *dogmatist* which I assume he gets from Empiricus too.

curry howard: proofs and algorithms
